Okay. In this part of the course, we're gonna take a look at setting up a Hello
World in Docker. We wanna make sure
that we can get a container to start up
and spit out Hello World. So, in all
programming languages, we always start
off with a Hello World app. This is
my way of making sure, that you have
completed your Docker installation. So if
Hello World does not work, you need to
stop right here, and make sure that you
get Docker properly installed on your
development platform, whether it's
Windows, OS X
or Linux. These both all have nuances on
how they get installed, so right now, in
this module, we're gonna go in and
make sure that we have Hello World
working for Docker. Okay! One thing I
wanna point out to you though, as a
little bonus. I developed a Docker cheat
sheet for Spring developers. Now this is
just a list of commands I assembled, as I
was going through and learning Docker
myself, a while back. This is a bunch
of Handy commands. What I wanna do
is look up this, because I can never
remember this on the top of my head.
I wanna go in and delete all my Docker
images, so I'm gonna grab this command,
right here, and I think I gotta copy it
to the copy, so that's a handy line.
I'm gonna toggle over to the command
line and I just listed out all the image
that I have. And that did not work. So,
let's try this one more time, that time
it worked. So this is Docker removed.
rmi is remove images. What this is
passing in is a Docker images command
quiet mode so that only lists the tag. So
its kind of a little recursive command that's gonna go in and
delete all the images. You can see
it's going out and deleting a bunch of
stuff. One thing from experienced
Docker, if you're learning a bunch of
stuff, it can clog up a lot. I'm doing
docker images -a, so the only thing
I have about there's artifactory
that might still be running. No it's not right.
For some reason... I'm
not gonna look into that right now.
What we wanna do is make sure that
Docker Hello World is running. So I
actually like clear the screen. Let's
do a docker
run hello-world. So we can see that
I wasn't able to find it, so I wanted you
to see that. I wasn't able to find it
locally. It went through and I ran
and we see in the middle screen there,
downloaded newer image finishes
below from docker. So this is exactly
what you want to see on your system, to
verify that Docker is up and running.
If you run it a second time, notice how
that we have a pool complete right there
at the top of the screen. It's gonna be
missing. If I run it again, we can see
that, it  just went through in and ran
quickly. So if I do to clear and docker
run hello-world, you can see that I don't
get that initial message or it's
downloading it from the docker registry.
So this tells us that the Docker image
has been cached in our machine. One of the nice
things about Docker, kind of sort of,
works like Maven is that it's gonna
bring down the containers and cache
locally. Downside is, like Maven, it can
clog up a lot of disk space on your
local system. Alright, so how easy it was
to set up Docker or get Docker going
with Hello World.
We saw the Hello World out to the
console and what this tells us is that
Docker is installed and working on our
system. So, this is what we wanna see
and this is what we need to see going
forward with the course.